Add mainnet overview page (#1853)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/understand-blockchain/mainchain.adoc

:url_typedoc_token: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.TokenModule.html
:url_typedoc_fee: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.FeeModule.html
:url_typedoc_reward: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.RewardModule.html
:url_typedoc_random: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.RandomModule.html
:url_typedoc_validator: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.ValidatorModule.html
:url_typedoc_pos: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.PoSModule.html
:url_typedoc_mc: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.MainchainInteroperabilityModule.html
:url_github_legacy: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0050.md
//Project URLs
:url_understand_sidechains: understand-blockchain/interoperability/index.adoc#mainchain-sidechains
:url_core: v4@lisk-core::index.adoc
:url_bugbounty: bug-bounty-program.adoc

> There are two permanently accessible public Lisk blockchain networks which are entirely independent of each other: the <<lisk-mainnet>> the <<lisk-testnet>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two permanently accessible public Lisk blockchain networks which are entirely independent of each other: the <<lisk-mainnet>> and the <<lisk-testnet>>.
```

Additional to the permanent networks, it is also possible to spin up a local network for development, called <<devnet>>, or to connect to a public <<lisk-betanet>>, which is accessible during beta releases for new Lisk Core versions.
xref:{url_core}[Lisk Core] is the blockchain client that is required to be installed on a server in order to configure a node that can connect to the respective Lisk mainchain.

> Table 1 below compares Mainnet and Testnet mainchain and their specific properties and configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Table 1 below provides a comparison between the Mainnet and the Testnet mainchain, and lists their specific properties and configurations:
```

//Project URLs
:url_understand_sidechains: understand-blockchain/interoperability/index.adoc#mainchain-sidechains
:url_core: v4@lisk-core::index.adoc
:url_bugbounty: bug-bounty-program.adoc

There are two permanently accessible public Lisk blockchain networks which are entirely independent of each other: the <<lisk-mainnet>> the <<lisk-testnet>>.

Additional to the permanent networks, it is also possible to spin up a local network for development, called <<devnet>>, or to connect to a public <<lisk-betanet>>, which is accessible during beta releases for new Lisk Core versions.
xref:{url_core}[Lisk Core] is the blockchain client that is required to be installed on a server in order to configure a node that can connect to the respective Lisk mainchain.

<<table1,Table 1>> below compares Mainnet and Testnet mainchain and their specific properties and configurations:

[#table1]
.Lisk network overview
[cols="1,1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|
|Mainnet
|Testnet

|Validator selection algorithm
|<<proof-of-stake-mainnet,PoS(Mainnet)>>
|<<proof-of-stake-testnet,PoS(Testnet)>>

|Block time
|10 seconds
|10 seconds

> |Maximum transaction size

Reviewer 2: This config [here](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-core/blob/v4.0.0-beta.4/config/mainnet/config.json#L20) actually refers to the block size, viz. sum total of the size of all the transactions contained within a block. Hence, also limits the max transaction size to 15 kB, in which case the block can only contain 1 transaction.

LIP-0055 explains it in the Block validation section [here](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0055.md#validation).

> |Maximum transaction size

Author: I see, but it is not really precise and a little confusing tbh. There should be two different values for max block size and max tx size

> |Maximum transaction size

Author: And i am not sure if adding this will cause any clearance, for me it would be really confusing to read max block/tx size is the same, and it might irritate the reader unneccessarily

> |Maximum transaction size

Reviewer 2: Then, if we were to choose only one, I'd prefer having it as `Maximum block size`.

> |Maximum transaction size

Author: ```suggestion
|Maximum block size
```

| 15 kB
| 15 kB

|Chain ID
|00000000
|01000000

> |Token ID

Author: I would prefer to leave it as `Token ID`, because LSK is very specific identifier of the Mainnet token, we should not use it anywhere else.

> |Token ID

Reviewer 2: Actually, we consistently use `LSK` for the Lisk token on all the networks. This is the exact symbol we use on the wallets for all the networks too. To me, only specifying `Token ID` doesn't give enough information and sounds vague.

> |Token ID

Author: Imho this is something to consider to be changed in the UI as well, it can cause unnecessary confusion. I would suggest to use a new abbreviation for Tesnet Lisk and Betanet Lisk, something like TLSK and BLSK, because otherwise there is no easy way for user to distinguish the cifferent currencies, other than looking at the tokenID, which is not very user-friendly

> |Token ID

Reviewer 2: I think, we are correct in using LSK on all the networks, since the user is already aware of the network they are connected to. But so that we're all aligned, could you please bring this discussion to slack? 🙏 

BTW Ethereum uses the same symbol (ETH) even on their testnet, but they do explicitly state `testnet ETH`.
Ref: https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networks/. Please check the second paragraph.

:url_typedoc_pos: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.PoSModule.html
:url_typedoc_mc: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.MainchainInteroperabilityModule.html
:url_github_legacy: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0050.md
//Project URLs
:url_understand_sidechains: understand-blockchain/interoperability/index.adoc#mainchain-sidechains
:url_core: v4@lisk-core::index.adoc
:url_bugbounty: bug-bounty-program.adoc

There are two permanently accessible public Lisk blockchain networks which are entirely independent of each other: the <<lisk-mainnet>> the <<lisk-testnet>>.

Additional to the permanent networks, it is also possible to spin up a local network for development, called <<devnet>>, or to connect to a public <<lisk-betanet>>, which is accessible during beta releases for new Lisk Core versions.
xref:{url_core}[Lisk Core] is the blockchain client that is required to be installed on a server in order to configure a node that can connect to the respective Lisk mainchain.

> <<table1,Table 1>> below compares Mainnet and Testnet mainchain and their specific properties and configurations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<<table1,Table 1>> below compares the Mainnet and the Testnet mainchain, and lists their specific properties and configurations:
```

[#table1]
.Lisk network overview
[cols="1,1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|
|Mainnet
|Testnet

|Token
|<<token,LSK>>
|<<faucet,Testnet LSK>>

|Validator selection algorithm
|<<proof-of-stake-mainnet,PoS(Mainnet)>>
|<<proof-of-stake-testnet,PoS(Testnet)>>

|Block time
|10 seconds
|10 seconds

|Maximum transaction size
| 15 kB
| 15 kB

|Chain ID
|00000000
|01000000

|Token ID
|0000000000000000
|0100000000000000

|P2P Port
|8001
|7001

|Minimum fee per byte
|1000 Beddows (0.00001 LSK)
|1000 Beddows (0.00001 LSK)

|User account initialization fee
|0.05 LSK
|0.05 LSK

|Escrow Account initialization fee
|0.05 LSK
|0.05 LSK

|Keeps blockchain events
|For 300 blocks
|For 300 blocks

|PoS init rounds
|60,480 = 7 * 24 * 3600
|60,480 = 7 * 24 * 3600

|Explorer
a|
* {url_observer}[^]
* {url_liskscan}[^]

a|
* {url_observer_testnet}[^]
* {url_liskscan_testnet}[^]

|Lisk service API base URLs
|https://service.lisk.com/api/v3/[^]
|https://testnet-service.lisk.com/api/v3/[^]
|===

== Lisk Mainnet
The Mainnet is where the true Lisk economy exists.

> Within this network the Lisk users can transfer LSK tokens from one account to another, register accounts as validators to generate new blocks, or register their xref:{url_understand_sidechains}[sidechains] to make them interoperable with any other registered sidechain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within this network, the Lisk users can transfer LSK tokens from one account to another, register accounts as validators to generate new blocks, or register their xref:{url_understand_sidechains}[sidechains] to make them interoperable with any other registered sidechain.
```

> Within this network, the Lisk users can transfer LSK tokens from one account to another, register accounts as validators to generate new blocks, or register their xref:{url_understand_sidechains}[sidechains] to make them interoperable with any other registered sidechain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Within this network, Lisk users can transfer LSK tokens from one account to another, register accounts as validators to generate new blocks, or register their xref:{url_understand_sidechains}[sidechains] to make them interoperable with any other registered sidechain.
```

=== Token

> The native token for the Lisk Mainchain is *LSK*, pronounced like "Lisk".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The native token for the Lisk Mainchain is *LSK*, pronounced as "Lisk".
```

> Each LSK is further subdivided into 10^8^ *Beddows*.
> At this time there are no other tokens supported.

Reviewer 2: I think, we should skip this line as we technically will support all the tokens on the mainchain. I'm not quite sure if we want to communicate it openly. We'll need some clarification here.
```suggestion
Each LSK is further subdivided into 10^8^ *Beddows*.
```

Author: already removed :)

 1 LSK = 100000000 Beddows

=== Proof of Stake (Mainnet)

[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

|Max length for the validator name
|20

|Max number of sent stakes
|10

> |Max number of pending unlocks

Reviewer 2: It'd be nice for the people to understand what validator/stake/unlock/active validator/standby validator is? Can we link these terms to the Glossary please?

|20

|Round length
|103 blocks

> |Minimum weight for standby delegates
> |1000 LSK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Minimum weight for standby validators
|100000000000 Beddows (1000 LSK)
```

> |Round length
> |103 blocks
> 
> |Minimum weight for standby delegates
> |1000 LSK
> 
> |Number of active validators
> |101

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

|Minimum weight for standby delegates
|1000 LSK

|Round length
|103 blocks

|Number of active validators
|101
```

|Number of standby validators
|2

|Registration fee for validators
|10 LSK
|===

> === Rewards (Mainnet)

Reviewer 2: Can we also add a Glossary entry to explain the Rewards related properties stated below and link them here?

[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

> |Token ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|LSK Token ID
```

|0000000000000000

|Offset
|2160 blocks

|Distance
|3000000 blocks

|Brackets
|["500000000", "400000000", "300000000", "200000000", "100000000"]
|===

=== Registered modules

> . {url_typedoc_auth}[Auth module^]
> . {url_typedoc_token}[Token module^]
> . {url_typedoc_fee}[Fee module^]
> . {url_typedoc_reward}[Reward module^]
> . {url_typedoc_random}[Random module^]
> . {url_typedoc_validator}[Validator module^]
> . {url_typedoc_pos}[PoS module^]
> . {url_typedoc_mc}[Mainchain Interoperability module^]
> . {url_github_legacy}[Legacy module^]

Reviewer 2: Should we not link these to their corresponding LIPs? Also, [LIP-0045](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0045.md) only defines it as `Interoperability` module. Should we not specify it the same way but highlight that only Lisk Core can act as the `mainchain` others will always be the `sidechains`?

Also, currently [the pages](https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/classes/lisk_framework.MainchainInteroperabilityModule.html) they refer to do not seem to be consistent in CSS styling with the current page.
```suggestion
. {url_typedoc_auth}[Auth module^]
. {url_typedoc_token}[Token module^]
. {url_typedoc_fee}[Fee module^]
. {url_typedoc_reward}[Reward module^]
. {url_typedoc_random}[Random module^]
. {url_typedoc_validator}[Validator module^]
. {url_typedoc_pos}[PoS module^]
. {url_typedoc_mc}[Interoperability module^]
. {url_github_legacy}[Legacy module^]
```

Author: TO address your valid questions:

1. We link to TypedDocs instead of LIPs, because we expect them to provide all the information relevant for developers in the future. Additionally, they should be easier to read than the LIPs. This info will be added soon via TypeDoc code comments in the respective module. Inside of the Typedocs, we will also add lnks to all relevant LIPs for the module.
2. Interoperability module includes both mainchain and sidechain module. on mainchain, only mainchain module is used, so this is correct imho.
3. About CSS styling, this is the default TypeDoc styling. We have an issue about creating our own custom Typedoc UI, but currently we have other priorities to work on first.

Reviewer 2: > Interoperability module includes both mainchain and sidechain module. on mainchain, only mainchain module is used, so this is correct imho.

Actually, both [LIP-0045](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/main/proposals/lip-0045.md) and the [SDK implementation](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk/tree/v6.0.0-beta.5/framework/src/modules/interoperability) only have `Interoperability` module defined/implemented. However, when we [initialize the application](https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-core/blob/development/src/application/index.ts#L19), the mainchain commands are explicitly enabled on Lisk Core by setting the `mainchain` flag to `true`. This is set to `false` by default. Hence, the sidechains only have access to the sidechain commands.

Author: I see your point, but imho it is more fitting to say mainchain registers mainchainInteroperability module, and sidechain registers sidechain interoperability module, this is also what the `mainchain` flag will affect: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-sdk/blob/development/framework/src/application.ts#L172-L178

== Lisk Testnet

> The Testnet is an independent replica of the Lisk Mainnet, whose main function is to test the upgrades first before they are run on the Lisk Mainnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Testnet is an independent replica of the Lisk Mainnet, primarily designed to test upgrades before implementing them on the Lisk Mainnet.
```

> The Testnet is an independent replica of the Lisk Mainnet, primarily designed to test upgrades before implementing them on the Lisk Mainnet.
> 
> Subsequently, this is where new/updated versions and fixes of the Lisk Core are tested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Testnet is an independent replica of the Lisk Mainnet, primarily designed to test upgrades before implementing them on the Lisk Mainnet.

This is where the new upcoming versions and fixes of the Lisk Core are tested, and, subsequently applied to the Lisk Mainnet.
```

> For users, the Testnet provides the possibility to perform their own tests of their Lisk applications, or to test their validator node setup, without spending any real LSK, or risking punishment on the mainnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For users, the Testnet provides the possibility to perform their own tests of their Lisk applications, or to test their validator node setup, without spending any real LSK, or risking punishment on the Mainnet.
```

> For users, the Testnet provides the possibility to perform their own tests of their Lisk applications, or to test their validator node setup, without spending any real LSK, or risking punishment on the Mainnet.

Reviewer 2: Should we highlight what `punishment` here refers to?

.Using Lisk Desktop for a Testnet account
TIP: To connect to the Testnet via {url_lisk_desktop}[Lisk Desktop^], simply enable the "Network Switcher" in the settings and then use it to switch the network to `Testnet`.

=== Faucet

Get free Testnet LSK from the {url_faucet_testnet}[Testnet faucet^] to start using the Testnet for your own purposes.

> .Testnet LSK are "play money"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Testnet LSK serves as "play money"
```

> IMPORTANT: Testnet LSK have no monetary value themselves, their only purpose is to test things in the Lisk testnet, without the need of spending "real" LSK tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Testnet LSK holds no intrinsic monetary value; they are purely intended for testing purposes within the Lisk Testnet, eliminating the necessity to spend "real" LSK tokens. Furthermore, Testnet LSK cannot be exchanged for Mainnet LSK or any other currency.
```

Testnet LSK cannot be swapped to Mainnet LSK or any other currency.

=== Proof of Stake (Testnet)
[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

|Max length for the validator name
|20 characters

|Max number of sent stakes
|10

|Max number of pending unlocks
|20

|Round length
|103 blocks

|Minimum weight for standby delegates
|1000 LSK

|Number of active validators
|101

|Number of standby validators
|2

|Registration fee for validators
|10 LSK
|===

=== Rewards (Testnet)

[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

> |Token ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|LSK Token ID
```

|0100000000000000

|Offset
|2160 blocks

|Distance
|3000000 blocks

|Brackets
|["500000000", "400000000", "300000000", "200000000", "100000000"]
|===

=== Registered modules

. {url_typedoc_auth}[Auth module^]
. {url_typedoc_token}[Token module^]
. {url_typedoc_fee}[Fee module^]
. {url_typedoc_reward}[Reward module^]
. {url_typedoc_random}[Random module^]
. {url_typedoc_validator}[Validator module^]
. {url_typedoc_pos}[PoS module^]
. {url_typedoc_mc}[Mainchain Interoperability module^]

> . {url_github_legacy}[Legacy module^]

Reviewer 2: Same as above for the highlighted sections.

== Lisk Betanet

> The Lisk Betanet is a temporarily accessible public blockchain network, that is used to test new beta releases of Lisk Core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Lisk Betanet is a temporarily accessible public blockchain network, that is used to test new beta releases of Lisk Core, prior to testing them on the Testnet.
```

> In contrast to the <<lisk-testnet>>, the Lisk Betanet is only available during beta testing phases of Lisk Core, which generally happen in preparation of bigger updates of the blockchain protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In contrast to the <<lisk-testnet>>, The Lisk Betanet is exclusively accessible during the beta testing phases of Lisk Core, which typically occur in preparation for significant updates to the blockchain protocol.
```

> In contrast to the <<lisk-testnet>>, the Lisk Betanet is exclusively accessible during the beta testing phases of Lisk Core, which typically occur in preparation for major updates to the blockchain protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In contrast to the <<lisk-testnet>>, the Lisk Betanet is exclusively accessible only during the beta testing phases of Lisk Core, which typically occur in preparation for major updates to the blockchain protocol.
```

Author: `exclusively` makes it clear already here imho

The most important properties of the Lisk Betanet are listed in the table below:

[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|

> |Betanet

Reviewer 2: Please consider adding all the highlighted properties above (Mainnet/Testnet) for Betanet too.

Author: Imho we shouldn't ad additional values here, because they will be only temporarily valid as long as the betanet exists.

Reviewer 2: Then, do we plan to remove the `Betanet` section after we move into the RC phase?

Author: No, this is why i would like to keep it general, only including information that is valid for every beta release

|Chain ID
|02000000

> |Token ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|LSK Token ID
```

|0200000000000000

|P2P Port
|7667

|Explorer
a|
* {url_observer_betanet}[^]
* {url_liskscan_betanet}[^]

|Lisk service API base URLs
|https://betanet-service.lisk.com/api/v3/[^]

|Faucet
| {url_faucet_betanet}[^]

|===

== Devnet

The Devnet is a local development network which is running on a single node.

> The purpose of the Devnet is to provide an easy to setup local blockchain network for specific tests which the user has full control over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of the Devnet is to provide a user-friendly locally set up blockchain network for performing specific tests, granting the user complete control over the environment.
```

> The Devnet is a local development network which is running on a single node.

Reviewer 2: This statement is incorrect. One could actually set up a devnet network with multiple nodes. But, usually used for development purposes.

Author: updated it slightly

> This can be useful if it is intended to run the blockchain with different configurations and/or modules, or to test specific stuff that would be too complicated or complex to test it on the Testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be beneficial when planning to operate the blockchain with various configurations and/or modules, or to test specific functionalities that might be too intricate or complex to evaluate on the Testnet.
```

Author: ```suggestion
This can be beneficial when planning to operate the blockchain with different configurations and/or modules compared to the public mainchains, or to test specific functionalities that might be too intricate or complex to evaluate on the Testnet.
```

> This can be beneficial when planning to operate the blockchain with different configurations and/or modules compared to the public mainchains, or to test specific functionalities that might be too intricate or complex to evaluate on the Testnet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be beneficial when planning to operate the blockchain with different configurations and/or modules compared to the public mainchains, or to test specific functionalities that might be too intricate or complex to evaluate on one of our public networks, such as the Betanet or the Testnet.
```

Author: I wouldn't update that like this, because betanet is only temporary, and we would need to update this section every time we add/remove a betanet

Reviewer 2: Or, maybe consider updating it as: `the Betanet (whenever operational/available)`, so that we do not have to maintain it?

Author: ```suggestion
This can be beneficial when planning to operate the blockchain with different configurations and/or modules compared to the public mainchains, or to test specific functionalities that might be too intricate or complex to evaluate on one of our public networks, such as the Betanet (whenever operational/available) or the Testnet.
```

Especially, it is recommended to set up a Devnet to search for bugs which can be reported through the xref:{url_bugbounty}[].

[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|

> |Devnet

Reviewer 2: Should we also make the table consistent with all the details specified above for the Mainnet/Testnet?

Author: We could add the default values here, highlighting that anything can be changed by the developer in the devnet, if they have the desire.

|Chain ID
|04000000

> |Token ID

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|LSK Token ID
```

In addition to the permanent networks, it is also possible to spin up a local network for development, known as the <<devnet>>, or to connect to a public network such as the <<lisk-betanet>>, which is accessible during beta releases for new Lisk Core versions.
xref:{url_core}[Lisk Core] is the blockchain client that is required to be installed on a server in order to configure a node that can connect to the respective Lisk mainchain.

<<table1,Table 1>> provides a comparison between the Mainnet and the Testnet mainchain, and lists their specific properties and configurations:

[#table1]
.Lisk network overview
[cols="1,1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Mainnet{fnlip63}
|Testnet

|Genesis height v4
|TBD
|TBD

|Genesis height v3
|16270294
|14075260

|Chain ID
|00000000
|01000000

|LSK Token ID
|0000000000000000
|0100000000000000

|Native Token
|<<token,LSK>>
|<<faucet,Testnet LSK>>

|Validator selection algorithm
|<<proof-of-stake-mainnet,PoS (Mainnet)>>
|<<proof-of-stake-testnet,PoS (Testnet)>>

|Block time
|10 seconds
|10 seconds

|Maximum block size
| 15 kB
| 15 kB

> |Default P2P Port
> |8001
> |7001

Reviewer 2: We'll update the ports in this issue: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lisk-core/issues/818
```suggestion
|Default P2P Port
|7667
|7667
```

|===

== Lisk Mainnet
The Mainnet is where the true Lisk economy exists.

Within this network, Lisk users can transfer LSK tokens from one account to another, register accounts as validators to generate new blocks, or register their xref:{url_understand_sidechains}[sidechains] to make them interoperable with any other registered sidechain.

=== Token

The native token for the Lisk Mainchain is *LSK*, pronounced as "Lisk".

Each LSK is further subdivided into 10^8^ *Beddows*.

 1 LSK = 100000000 Beddows

=== Proof of Stake (Mainnet)

Configurations of the {url_typedoc_pos}[PoS module^] of Lisk Mainnet mainchain.

.PoS constants(Mainnet)
[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

|Max length for the xref:{url_pos_validator}[validator] name
|20

|Max number of sent xref:{url_run_staking}[stakes]
|10

|Max number of pending xref:{url_run_unlock}[unlocks]
|20

|Minimum weight for standby validators
|100000000000 Beddows (1000 LSK)

|xref:{url_pos_validator}[Round] length
|103 blocks

|Number of active validators
|101

|Number of standby validators
|2

|Registration fee for validators
|1000000000 Beddows (10 LSK)
|===

=== Rewards (Mainnet)

> Configurations of the {url_typedoc_reward}[Dynamic Reward module^] of Lisk Mainnet mainchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configurations of the {url_typedoc_reward}[Dynamic Reward module^] of the Lisk Mainnet mainchain.
```

This is where the new upcoming versions and fixes of the Lisk Core are tested, and, subsequently applied to the Lisk Mainnet.

For users, the Testnet provides the possibility to perform their own tests of their Lisk applications, or to test their validator node setup, without spending any real LSK, or risking punishment{fnpunish} on the Mainnet.

.Using Lisk Desktop for a Testnet account
TIP: To connect to the Testnet via {url_lisk_desktop}[Lisk Desktop^], simply enable the "Network Switcher" in the settings and then go back to the login screen and switch the network to `Testnet` in the dropdown menu.

=== Faucet

Get free Testnet LSK from the {url_faucet_testnet}[Testnet faucet^] to start using the Testnet for your own purposes.

.Testnet LSK serves as "play money"
IMPORTANT: Testnet LSK holds no intrinsic monetary value; they are purely intended for testing purposes within the Lisk Testnet, eliminating the necessity to spend "real" LSK tokens.
Furthermore, Testnet LSK cannot be exchanged for Mainnet LSK or any other currency.

=== Proof of Stake (Testnet)

> Configurations of the {url_typedoc_pos}[PoS module^] of Lisk Testnet mainchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configurations of the {url_typedoc_pos}[PoS module^] of the Lisk Testnet mainchain.
```

.PoS constants(Testnet)
[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

|Max length for the xref:{url_pos_validator}[validator] name
|20

|Max number of sent xref:{url_run_staking}[stakes]
|10

|Max number of pending xref:{url_run_unlock}[unlocks]
|20

|xref:{url_pos_validator}[Round] length
|103 blocks

|Minimum weight for standby delegates
|1000 LSK

|Number of active validators
|101

|Number of standby validators
|2

|Registration fee for validators
|10 LSK
|===

=== Rewards (Testnet)
Configurations of the {url_typedoc_reward}[Dynamic Reward module^] of Lisk Testnet mainchain.

.Block reward constants(Testnet)
[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

|LSK Token ID for xref:{url_blocks_blockreward}[block rewards]
|0100000000000000

|Offset for starting with block rewards
|2160 blocks

|Distance for each xref:{url_blocks_blockreward}[milestone]
|3000000 blocks

> |Brackets (Reward reduction in Beddows for each milestone)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Brackets (Block reward for each milestone in Beddows)
```

|["500000000", "400000000", "300000000", "200000000", "100000000"]
|===

=== Registered modules

. {url_typedoc_auth}[Auth module^]
. {url_typedoc_token}[Token module^]
. {url_typedoc_fee}[Fee module^]
. Dynamic Reward module
//. {url_typedoc_reward}[Dynamic Reward module^]
. {url_typedoc_random}[Random module^]
. {url_typedoc_validator}[Validator module^]
. {url_typedoc_pos}[PoS module^]
. {url_typedoc_mc}[Mainchain Interoperability module^]
. {url_github_legacy}[Legacy module^]

== Lisk Betanet

The Lisk Betanet is a temporarily accessible public blockchain network, that is used to test new beta releases of Lisk Core, prior to testing them on the Testnet.

In contrast to the <<lisk-testnet>>, the Lisk Betanet is exclusively accessible during the beta testing phases of Lisk Core, which typically occur in preparation for major updates to the blockchain protocol.

> The Betanet is most interesting for validators and Lisk application developers, because they can explore new releases already before they are deployed on Testnet and Mainnet, to learn about new features and the latest updates to the protocol.

Reviewer: imho I would just slightly reword this as follows:

"The Betanet holds significant appeal for validators and Lisk application developers, offering them the opportunity to explore new releases ahead of their deployment on the Testnet and the Mainnet. This allows them to gain insights into new features and stay updated with the latest advancements in the protocol."

Author: ```suggestion
The Betanet holds significant appeal for validators and Lisk application developers, offering them the opportunity to explore new releases ahead of their deployment on the Testnet and the Mainnet. This allows them to gain insights into new features and stay updated with the latest advancements in the protocol.
```

> Also, it is the first publicly accessible network for new releases of Lisk Core, which is testing the new release in a broader scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore, it is the first publicly accessible network for new releases of Lisk Core, which is testing the new release in a broader scope.
```

This helps to identify and fix remaining issues with the release, and therefore participation from the community is welcomed during this phase.
Feel free to play around in the Betanet and report any feedback or issues you might encounter in the dedicated channels on {url_lisk_chat}[Lisk.chat].

The most important properties of the Lisk Betanet are listed in the table below:

[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Betanet

|Chain ID
|02000000

|LSK Token ID
|0200000000000000

|P2P Port
|7667

|Explorer
a|
* {url_observer_betanet}[^]
* {url_liskscan_betanet}[^]

|Lisk service API base URLs
|https://betanet-service.lisk.com/api/v3/[^]

|Faucet
| {url_faucet_betanet}[^]

|===

== Lisk Alphanet

> The Lisk Alphanet is used to test alhpa releases for new Lisk Core versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lisk Alphanet is used to test alpha releases for new Lisk Core versions.
```

|For latest 300 blocks
|===

=== Proof of Stake (Devnet)
Default configurations of the {url_typedoc_pos}[PoS module^] of Lisk Testnet mainchain.

[#table7]
[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

|Max length for the xref:{url_pos_validator}[validator] name
|20

|Max number of sent xref:{url_run_staking}[stakes]
|10

|Max number of pending xref:{url_run_unlock}[unlocks]
|20

|xref:{url_pos_validator}[Round] length
|103 blocks

|Minimum weight for standby delegates
|1000 LSK

|Number of active validators
|101

|Number of standby validators
|2

|Registration fee for validators
|10 LSK
|===

=== Rewards (Devnet)
//TODO: Add link to dynamic reward module, once available
Default configurations of the Dynamic Reward module of Lisk Testnet mainchain.
//Default configurations of the {url_typedoc_reward}[Dynamic Reward module^] of Lisk Testnet mainchain.

[#table8]
[cols="1,1",options="header",stripes="hover"]
|===
|Property
|Value

|LSK Token ID for xref:{url_blocks_blockreward}[block rewards]
|0400000000000000

|Offset for starting with block rewards
|360 blocks

|Distance for each xref:{url_blocks_blockreward}[milestone]
|1000 blocks

> |Brackets (Reward reduction in Beddows for each milestone)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Brackets (Block reward for each milestone in Beddows)
```
